2023-01-09: Created logbook and begun overview of project. Completed up to task #1 of Step 2. I will leave my answers for now and as the project further progresses, make further changes.
2023-01-10: Implemented player object and added all necessary components to which a player of the game would need (dice, rolling dice, the result of said roll, adding points, subtracting points). As a result, F01 and F02 are complete
2023-01-11: Continued to work on the player class. I ended up deciding on using ArrayList instead of just regular arrays as my initial design ideas included dynamically adding a removing things (such as Dice) from arrays, so to save time it makes more sense to use ArrayLists. Some code had to be changed to accommodate ArrayLists
2023-01-11 (2): Almost all features still needed to be implemented are implemented. Going to run some quick tests to make sure that the features are working as intended before marking as completed with tags. For now, pushing my work.
2023-01-12: All business logic has completed testing and thus has been implemented! Had to re-write my random keeping of dice method as it was really messy. There was also an unforeseen bug which caused the player's current roll not to update when a skull(s) was rolled. The intended logic was to immediately place all skulls to the side upon rolling (which current roll indicates the dice still in play). This has since been fixed. I have also updated the README feature list to streamline feature wording.
2023-01-16: Started repaying debt. I am starting on the MainGame class first as it's the thing that is the most non-generic. Started changing code for methods to be more generic, I will push for now even though the code is non-functional
2023-01-17: MainGame class (now renamed Game) is much more generic and object-oriented, I have implemented new methods such as getting win conditioned players to make code much more organized and readable. Introduced Tracker class which handles printing of simulation results.
2023-01-17 (2): I have made the player class abstract as I figured to make the code more legible and more generic, it made sense to allow programmers to use the Player class as a blueprint for creating specific strategies. Fixed issues with random player behaviour, first, if a player got down to one die remaining, they would be unable to keep it and kept rolling until a skull rolled thus ending their turn. Second, it was possible for a turn to be terminated if a player had rolled two skulls instead of 3. Third, players could execute their strategy if they rolled three skulls instead of ending their turn immediately. Fourth, players could roll with no dice left.
2023-01-18: Started step #4, updated backlog in README.md and implemented checking for x of a kind rolls then awarding points for said x of a kind roll.
2023-01-19: Awarding points based on all game rulebook logic (aside from island of skulls) has been implemented (F08). Started to work on player maximizing combo's strategy (advanced player logic).
2023-01-20: F09 is almost ready to ship. PlayerCombo logic is basically completed but I would like to make it much more advanced. Fixed a bug which was overlooked in awardingPoints. Skulls were accidentally counted as sets to award points to.
2023-01-21: A Lot done today! Both F09 and F10 have been shipped. To complement F10 (and make the program much more stable), I added some basic input checking logic in the form of custom exception handling. I also noticed that ending a players turn on 3 skulls was not working correctly and still awarded points, that has since been fixed. Tie tracking has been re-implemented. I took it out initially because I was not sure if I even wanted to have some sort of tie condition but now that most of the program is fleshed out, I made the decision to re-add it (plus the end of all games stats makes more sense now). Finally, I added last turn logic for when the first player reaches 6000 points.
2023-01-23: Started implementing the card deck. Initially, I wanted to add error handling to checking if the card deck runs out but this proved to make the code more complex unintentionally.
2023-01-23 (2): Another productive day! Step 5 is now complete! Made some changes to both Player class (mainly to support sea battle strategy) and Exception handling.
2023-01-24: Implemented the monkey business card. Fixed an overlooked issue where if a player had a sea battle card, there was a chance that the player could not obtain a full chest award (applied to sea battle cards with two sabers)
2023-01-29: Implemented Island of skulls mechanics and re-worked command line arguments with Apache CLI. Re-worked error handling a little